Basic for any research
	state the research question clearly
	state your assumptions
	state what you know
	state what you don't know but need to know
	estimate, calculate or research (state the method clearly)
	verify if the answer is sensible
	reference properly
Relationships
	linear
	power law (linear, superlinear o sublinear) (there are many already 
	defined laws as kleiber's law)
Logarithms
	base^x=result
	Log base result=x
	Log base result=Ln result / Ln base
	result=base*rate^years (rate formated as 1.0)
Ln vs Ln plot
	all linear, sublinear o superlinear relationship must look linear in
	a Ln vs Ln plot (remember to adjust scale closer to zero)
Definitions (just tips)
	Variance: average of squared distances from mean 
	Covariance: measure how two variables variate together. the bigger the more
		correlated. negative or positive indicate inclination. Like variance but 
		in two dimensions.
	Standard deviation: root of variance
	p value: unlikeliness of relation arising from noise. Probability of
		observing something as extreme or more. has to be smaller than alpha.
		(usually a product of T-test or F-test to check if gradient is 
		significantly different from 0).
	alpha: significance level
Linear Regressions
    can be simple or multiple (it is important to specify).
    Possible with multiple variables (even ranks and categories if transformed to 1-0).
	r square or coefficient of determination: It measures how good a line fits
		a sample. 1 is better. 
	p value: unlikeliness of relation arising from noise. Probability of
		observing something as extreme or more. has to be smaller than alpha.
		(usually a product of T-test or F-test to check if gradient is 
		significantly different from 0).
	alpha: significance level
	mse: sum of squared errors. Good fitting regressions should have small errors.
	pearson correlation: measures correlation. 1 means it is more correlated.
	spearman rank correlation: measures strength of a monotonic 
		relationship between paired data. correlation for ranks. It is more robust. 
		It can deal with non linear relationships but they need to be monotonic.
		Basically a pearson correlation on ranked data
    Pearson Requirements:
		-dependend variable has linear relationship with independent (scatter plot)
		-the standard deviation of y shouldn't variate accross y (random residuals plot)
		-y should show a normal distribution across x (histogram, boxplot or skewness 
			bigger than 1 or less than -1)
		-data like interval or ratio level 
	Spearman Requirements:
		-dependend variable has linear relationship with independent (scatter plot)
		-the standard deviation of y shouldn't variate accross y (random residuals plot)
		-no need for a normal distribution
		-data like interval or ratio level or ordinal (no need to rank 
		the data previously in r)
	Steps
		-check requirements
		-stablish formula
		-check pearson or spearman correlation (r square where 1 is 100% rel
			, p value and mse)
		-plot least squares regression line
		-cross-validate if needed (advanced)
	Tecniques
		Linear
		Lasso, Ridge and Elastic Net
		Support Vector
		Regression Trees
	Testing
		Mean Absolute Error (MAE)
		Mean Squared Error
		R2 Score

Distributions
	kleiber's law: energy use scales at 3/4 of mass
	Bendford's law for leading numbers: in most natural phenomena, the 
		frequency of the leading number decreases with the increase of the leading
		number.
	Normal: defined by mean and standard deviation.
	Central limit theorem: the mean or sum of a large sample will always be
		normally distributed no matter how the samples are distributed.
	Log normal distribution: similar to normal but skew depending of the 
		standard deviation
	Zipf's law: phenomena is more frequent when rank is higher (the effect is more
		clear in higher ranks. The correlations is smaller in lower ranks. coherence
		in the entire dataset is necessary, random sampling doesn't lead to zipf's)
	Poisson distribution: good for predicting phenomena in a period of time or space.
		you need to know lambda
	
	Every distribution have a probability density function and cumulative density function.
Hypothesis testing
	basically we check the probability of seeing a phenomena like the data or more extreme
	if null hypothesis is true. If p is smaller than alpha means the probability
	is too small and we have to reject the null hypothesis.
	Can be used to check linear regressions.
	Generic Types:
		lower-tailed
		upper-tailed
		two-tailed
	t-test (usually two sided)
		independent or paired samples
		checks if the means of the two samples are significantly different
		steps
			check normality (histogram or ks-test)
			check variance is similar (f-test)
			perform t-test
	ks-test
		compares the distance betwee the samples empiric distribution and
		a reference distribution or another sample empiric distribution.
		checks if both distributions are significantly differents.
		more sensitive than t-test because it looks to mean and shape.
		However, if normality is present, t-test is more sensible.
		KS-test could be used to check normality and then a t-test for mean. 
	Fisher test
		checks than proportion is equal in both samples or checks independence
		of the variables.
		more suited for small samples than chi-square
Expected value and utility functions
	Calculates the expected value at long term of a phenomena
	expected value=rewards*probability of winning - loses*probability of losing
	marginal utility: an extra unit gives less than the previous
	discount parameter: discount per time
Simpson paradox
	the statistics of a group might be opposed to the statistics of the sub-groups
	Pay attention to sub-groups.
Optimisation
	linear programming
Regression to the mean (number go up and down, obtainers of high values might 
	return to the mean in next measurements)
Standardrisation
	standardrised data=data-mean/std
	allows comparison of two normally distributed samples with different units
Stochastic Optimisation
	simple-hill climbing
	steepest ascent hill-climbing
	simulated annealing
Clustering (see scikit )
	k-means 
		requires knowing the ammount of clusters
		sensitive to initial settings and outliers
		incapable of handling clusters convex-shaped
		inaplicable to categorical data
	Silhouette analysis
	hierarchichal clustering
		divisive
		agglomerative
	DBSCAN (favorite)
    Affinity Propagation
    Gaussian Mixture Models
    
    Testing
	    Silhouette Score
	    homogeneity
	    completeness
classification (see scikit) (predicts labels, predictors are for values)
	-Nearest Neighbours
	-Naïve Bayes
	-Artificial Neural Networks
	-Support Vector Machines
	-Decision Trees
	-Random Forests
	Testing
		Classification Accuracy
		Precision
		Recall
		F1

Models
	-real world question
	-mathematical representation
	-check model with reality and adjust (verificate model)
	-answer your question
	-check question (validate answer)
	
	types (by detail)
		facsimile (very specific)
		middle range (more generic)
		abstract
	types (by design)
		system dynamic models 
		-based on mathetical functions
		-more simple
		-less computational intense
		-examples
			SIR
			Lokta-Volterra
		agent-based models (read the odd protocol)
		-based on agent rules
		-can produce emergent behaviours
		-more computational intense
		-examples
			cellular automaton (game of life)
Text mining
	-Processing Text
	-Keyword Extraction
	-Latent Dirichlet Allocation
	-Sentiment Detection
	-Language Detection
Image Processing
	-Object Recognition
	-Face and Feature Detection

Analysis Workflow
	Collect Data
	Clean and Prepare Data
		nulls
		duplicates
		wrong data type
	Analyse Input Data
	select algorithm
	Train Algorithm
	Test Algorithm
	Use Algorithm
	
	-Pre-Processing Data
		-Dimensionality Reduction 
			Principle Component Analysis (PCA)
		-Standardisation
			Range Scaling / Normalisation
			Z-Score Scaling
			one Hot Encoding
	-Model Refinement
		-Validation Measures (see testing/validation above)
		-Cross Validation
			K-Fold Cross Validation
		-Hyperparameter Optimisation
			Grid Search 
			Bayesian Optimisation
			Random search
		
		
			
		
	


